README.md, before:

# Configuring Linux Web Server
The project explains how to a take a baseline installation of a linux server and prepare it to host a web applications. At the end of the project you will secure your server from a number of attack vectors, install and configure a database server, and delpoy an existing web applications onto it.

## Installation
Initial setup before using the code.

### Get your server
* Amazon account with a _lightsail_
  * Start a new Ubuntu linux server intstance
  * SSH into the Server
    *
    *
The IP address: 35.176.9.18
SSH port: 22
The complete URL to your hosted web application: [catalog](https://lightsail.aws.amazon.com/ls/webapp/domains/datafrica-com)


Locate the SSH key you created for the grader user.

### Dependencies on other software or libraries
A list of any third-party resources you need in this project.
To run flask app on the instance (ubuntu OS), we have to install Apache server, WSGI (Web Server Gateway Interface), flask and other libraries used in the app. Basically run the following:-

`sudo apt-get update`

`sudo apt-get install python-pip`

`sudo apt-get install python-flask`

`sudo apt-get install apache2`

`sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi`



## Secure your server
Configure your firewall ()**ufw**} earlier on
ufw status -inactive
Configure ports
ufw enable status





1 what steps needs to be taken?
2 what should the user already have installed or configured
3 what might they have hard time understanding right away


## Usage
Configuring a linux web server requires a number of environmental variables for runtime configuration. The following examples demonstrate ho to run it manually from the command line
example code


## Create user with access
Create a new user
Install finder `sudo apt-get install finger`
Giving Sudo Access
Do this in the main admin account - ubuntu@IP address
Create a new file inside - sudoers.d with the new of the new user
Open this file with visudo
Add this line of code inside this file
Username `ALL = (ALL : ALL) ALL`

`sudo adduser grader`
Give a password to user when prompted to do so
Long as grader with given password

### Grant persmission
Create a file name grader with:
`sudo touch /etc/sudoers.d/grader`

Then open the file with:
 `sudo visudo /etc/sudoers.d/grader`

Enter this live of code:
`ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL`, save and quit.

### Generate key pairs



## Prepare to deploy your project
## Install and configure the Apache Web Server on an Ubuntu
`sudo apt-get update`
`sudo apt-get install apache2`

The visit your client to check if you have a working server by typing
`your_domain_name_or_ip_address`
This is the default web page for this server.

### The Apache File Hierarchy in Ubuntu
On Ubuntu, Apache keeps its main configuration files within the "/etc/apache2" folder:

`cd /etc/apache2`
`ls`

apache2.conf  envvars     magic            mods-enabled/  sites-available/
conf.d/       httpd.conf  mods-available/  ports.conf     sites-enabled/


* Configure the local timezone to UTC


### Prelimnary configuration of apache to display "Hello World!"
* Install and configure Apache to server a Python mod_wsgi application
 `sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3`

 Define the name of the file you need to write within Apache configuration by using `WSGIScriptAlias` directive
 Now **edit** the /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf file. This file tells Apache how to respond to requests, where to find the files for a particular site and much more.

 Edit by adding the following line at the end of the
 ```
 <VirtualHost *:80> block, right before the closing
 </VirtualHost> line:
 `WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/html/myapp.wsgi`

 Then **_create_** the `/var/www/html/myapp.wsgi` file using the command `sudo vim /var/www/html/myapp.wsgi`


 Finally, restart Apache with the sudo apache2ctl restart

The name of the file you need to write within Apache configuration by using `WSGIScriptAlias` directive.




## Deploy the project
### Setting Up Virtual Hosts
Create a directory structure within `/var/www/` for your domain.
* cd in /var/wwww
* Clone the project from github with this directory `www`

* Now cd into the project directory cloned `cd /var/www/your_cloned_project_ directory`
* Next assign ownership of the directory with $USER environment variable.
  * `sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /var/www/your_cloned_project_ directory`
* Next give permissions to your web root
  * `sudo chmod -R 775 /var/www/your_cloned_project_ directory`


#### Customise the Apache to hand-off certain requests to an app

* Configure Apache to handle requests using the WSGI module. But instead of by editing the file`/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf`, lets create a new file with:

  * `sudo vim  /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/your_domain.conf` Take note that this is you app configuration file and is inate. It doesn not require touching.

  * Add the following default values to `/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/your_domain.conf`:
    * ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost to the email address of the domain manager
    * ServerName www.example.com to your DNS or IP address.
    * DocumentRoot `/var/www/html` to `/var/www/your_domain`

    * Add the following line
     `WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/your_domain/your_domain.wsgi` at the end of the block right before the closing line

The `/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/your_domain.conf` should now look like this:

 ```bin/bash
       <VirtualHost *:80>
          ServerAdmin domain_admin@gmail.com
          ServerName your_domain
          DocumentRoot /var/www/your_domain

          DocumentRoot /var/www/your_doamin

          ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
          CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined

          WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/your_domain/myapp.wsgi
       </VirtualHost>
 ```

  * Restart Apache with `sudo apache2ctl restart`


#### Add the following lines of code to the myapp.wsgi file:
Then add this block of code to the `your_domain.wsgi` application.

```#!/usr/bin/python3
import sys
import logging
logging.basicConfig(stream=sys.stderr)
sys.path.insert(0,"/var/www/your_doamin/")

from your_domain import app as application
application.secret_key = 'Add your secret key'
```


### Setting Up Postgresql Database
* Install posgressql with
`sudo apt-get install postgresql`

Use this command to start the Postgres interactive shell and to switch user to Postgres: You must be already logged in as a sudo user

`$ sudo -i -u postgres`

* Create database user with:
`postgresql@IP Adress: createruser -P <username>`
Give password as password on prompt

* Create database with the same name as username
`postgresql@IP Adress: createrdb <username>`
* Check to see permissions to the user with:


Rename `application.py` to `__init__.py` using

`sudo mv application.py __init__.py`

* Edit these files, ( `database_setup.py`, `application.py` and `functions_helper.py` ),  by changing

```engine = create_engine('sqlite:///your_database_name.db.db'``` to

 `engine = create_engine('postgresql://<username>:password@localhost/<username>'`

 Exit postgresql user:
  `Exit`

Run the database setup file  `sudo python database_setup.py`




## Known Bugs
Check apache status with;
`sudo systemctl status apache2`

`apache2.service - The Apache HTTP Server
   Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/apache2.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
  Drop-In: /lib/systemd/system/apache2.service.d
           └─apache2-systemd.conf
   Active: failed (Result: exit-code) since Tue 2020-04-28 14:30:45 UTC; 6h ago
  Process: 6683 ExecStop=/usr/sbin/apachectl stop (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)
  Process: 11359 ExecStart=/usr/sbin/apachectl start (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)
 Main PID: 26395 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)

Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 systemd[1]: Starting The Apache HTTP Server...
Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 apachectl[11359]: AH00526: Syntax error on line 29 of /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf:
Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 apachectl[11359]: Invalid command 'WSGIScriptAlias', perhaps misspelled or defined by a module not included in the server configuration
Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 apachectl[11359]: Action 'start' failed.
Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 apachectl[11359]: The Apache error log may have more information.
Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 systemd[1]: apache2.service: Control process exited, code=exited status=1
Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 systemd[1]: apache2.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'.
Apr 28 14:30:45 ip-172-26-10-235 systemd[1]: Failed to start The Apache HTTP Server.
`

## Contributing
We encourgae contributions to Configuring linux web server. Please checkout  [guidelines]() on how to proceed.

## Licensing
Configuring a linux web server is licenced under [GNU AGPLv3](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/agpl-3.0/)

Commit message:

Apache2 restarted but client displays configuration error

README.md, after:

# Configuring Linux Web Server
The project explains how to a take a baseline installation of a linux server and prepare it to host a web applications. At the end of the project you will secure your server from a number of attack vectors, install and configure a database server, and delpoy an existing web applications onto it.

## Installation
Initial setup before using the code.

### Get your server
* Amazon account with a _lightsail_
  * Start a new Ubuntu linux server intstance
  * SSH into the Server
    *
    *
The IP address: 35.176.9.18
SSH port: 22
The complete URL to your hosted web application: [catalog](https://lightsail.aws.amazon.com/ls/webapp/domains/datafrica-com)


Locate the SSH key you created for the grader user.

### Dependencies on other software or libraries
A list of any third-party resources you need in this project.
To run flask app on the instance (ubuntu OS), we have to install Apache server, WSGI (Web Server Gateway Interface), flask and other libraries used in the app. Basically run the following:-

`sudo apt-get update`

`sudo apt-get install python-pip`

`sudo apt-get install python-flask`

`sudo apt-get install apache2`

`sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi`



## Secure your server
Configure your firewall ()**ufw**} earlier on
ufw status -inactive
Configure ports
ufw enable status





1 what steps needs to be taken?
2 what should the user already have installed or configured
3 what might they have hard time understanding right away


## Usage
Configuring a linux web server requires a number of environmental variables for runtime configuration. The following examples demonstrate ho to run it manually from the command line
example code


## Create user with access
Create a new user
Install finder `sudo apt-get install finger`
Giving Sudo Access
Do this in the main admin account - ubuntu@IP address
Create a new file inside - sudoers.d with the new of the new user
Open this file with visudo
Add this line of code inside this file
Username `ALL = (ALL : ALL) ALL`

`sudo adduser grader`
Give a password to user when prompted to do so
Long as grader with given password

### Grant persmission
Create a file name grader with:
`sudo touch /etc/sudoers.d/grader`

Then open the file with:
 `sudo visudo /etc/sudoers.d/grader`

Enter this live of code:
`ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL`, save and quit.

### Generate key pairs



## Prepare to deploy your project
## Install and configure the Apache Web Server on an Ubuntu
`sudo apt-get update`
`sudo apt-get install apache2`

The visit your client to check if you have a working server by typing
`your_domain_name_or_ip_address`
This is the default web page for this server.

### The Apache File Hierarchy in Ubuntu
On Ubuntu, Apache keeps its main configuration files within the "/etc/apache2" folder:

`cd /etc/apache2`
`ls`

apache2.conf  envvars     magic            mods-enabled/  sites-available/
conf.d/       httpd.conf  mods-available/  ports.conf     sites-enabled/


* Configure the local timezone to UTC


### Prelimnary configuration of apache to display "Hello World!"
* Install and configure Apache to server a Python mod_wsgi application
 `sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3`

 Define the name of the file you need to write within Apache configuration by using `WSGIScriptAlias` directive
 Now **edit** the /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf file. This file tells Apache how to respond to requests, where to find the files for a particular site and much more.

 Edit by adding the following line at the end of the
 ```
 <VirtualHost *:80> block, right before the closing
 </VirtualHost> line:
 `WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/html/myapp.wsgi`

 Then **_create_** the `/var/www/html/myapp.wsgi` file using the command `sudo vim /var/www/html/myapp.wsgi`


 Finally, restart Apache with the sudo apache2ctl restart

The name of the file you need to write within Apache configuration by using `WSGIScriptAlias` directive.




## Deploy the project
### Setting Up Virtual Hosts
Create a directory structure within `/var/www/` for your domain.
* cd in /var/wwww
* Clone the project from github with this directory `www`

* Now cd into the project directory cloned `cd /var/www/your_cloned_project_ directory`
* Next assign ownership of the directory with $USER environment variable.
  * `sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /var/www/your_cloned_project_ directory`
* Next give permissions to your web root
  * `sudo chmod -R 775 /var/www/your_cloned_project_ directory`


#### Customise the Apache to hand-off certain requests to an app

* Configure Apache to handle requests using the WSGI module. But instead of by editing the file`/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf`, lets create a new file with:

  * `sudo vim  /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/your_domain.conf` Take note that this is you app configuration file and is inate. It doesn not require touching.

  * Add the following default values to `/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/your_domain.conf`:
    * ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost to the email address of the domain manager
    * ServerName www.example.com to your DNS or IP address.
    * DocumentRoot `/var/www/html` to `/var/www/your_domain`

    * Add the following line
     `WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/your_domain/your_domain.wsgi` at the end of the block right before the closing line

The `/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/your_domain.conf` should now look like this:

 ```bin/bash
       <VirtualHost *:80>
          ServerAdmin domain_admin@gmail.com
          ServerName your_domain
          DocumentRoot /var/www/your_domain

          DocumentRoot /var/www/your_doamin

          ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
          CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined

          WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/your_domain/myapp.wsgi
       </VirtualHost>
 ```

  * Restart Apache with `sudo apache2ctl restart`


#### Add the following lines of code to the myapp.wsgi file:
Then add this block of code to the `your_domain.wsgi` application.

```#!/usr/bin/python3
import sys
import logging
logging.basicConfig(stream=sys.stderr)
sys.path.insert(0,"/var/www/your_doamin/")

from your_domain import app as application
application.secret_key = 'Add your secret key'
```


### Setting Up Postgresql Database
* Install posgressql with
`sudo apt-get install postgresql`

Use this command to start the Postgres interactive shell and to switch user to Postgres: You must be already logged in as a sudo user

`$ sudo -i -u postgres`

* Create database user with:
`postgresql@IP Adress: createruser -P <username>`
Give password as password on prompt

* Create database with the same name as username
`postgresql@IP Adress: createrdb <username>`
* Check to see permissions to the user with:


Rename `application.py` to `__init__.py` using

`sudo mv application.py __init__.py`

* Edit these files, ( `database_setup.py`, `application.py` and `functions_helper.py` ),  by changing

```engine = create_engine('sqlite:///your_database_name.db.db'``` to

 `engine = create_engine('postgresql://<username>:password@localhost/<username>'`

 Exit postgresql user:
  `Exit`

Run the database setup file  `sudo python database_setup.py`



## Known Bugs
Internal Server Error
The server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request.

Please contact the server administrator at kofuafor@gmail.com to inform them of the time this error occurred, and the actions you performed just before this error.

More information about this error may be available in the server error log.


## Contributing
We encourgae contributions to Configuring linux web server. Please checkout  [guidelines]() on how to proceed.

## Licensing
Configuring a linux web server is licenced under [GNU AGPLv3](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/agpl-3.0/)
